# Pull NGINX image
In this lesson, we'll be using NGINX to serve some data over HTTP.

For that we'll need our container to be accessible from outside.

Let's pull the image first.

```bash
$ docker pull nginx:latest
```

## Mount a port
Now run its container.

```bash
$ docker run -it --publish 8080:80 nginx:latest
```

The `nginx:latest` image runs a service on port `80` which serves some files. But we want that service to be accessible from `localhost:8080`. So we have published or mounted the port `80` of the container to port `8080` of our host machine.

On a different terminal of your host machine, or on your browser, visit `http://localhost:8080`

```bash
$ curl http://localhost:8080
```

After you'll visit the page, you'll see some logs generated by `nginx` on your terminal.

Also notice that, you cannot close the terminal where you started the container. If you close it, the container will stop.

## Running container in background
Let's close it with `CTRL-C` and run it in background this time.

```bash
$ docker run -it --detach -p 8080:80 nginx:latest
```

Now the container runs in the background and it can be stopped using `docker stop` command.

## Mount a volume
The NGINX default page has some boring stuff. NGINX serve that page from `/usr/share/nginx/html/index.html` inside the container. We need to change that.

You have two options,
- copy a new `index.html` to that directory using `ADD` or `docker cp` command
- mount a directory on your host machine to that directory in the container

First option is boring, let's do the second one.

Let's setup first the page to serve on our machine.

```bash
$ mkdir ~/my-website && cd ~/my-website
$ echo "My name is <b>Ali Yousuf</b>" > index.html
```

Let's run the container with this directory mounted.

```bash
$ docker run -dit -p 8080:80 --volume ~/my-website:/usr/share/nginx/html/ nginx:latest
```

You must have guessed it by now. It is `--volume <src path>:<dst path>`.

Yay! You just served your first website using Docker! :tada:

The benefit of mounting a volume is, if you change the file on your host machine, it will be reflected inside the container immediately. Let's try it.

```bash
$ echo " and I'm learning how to use Docker" >> index.html
$ curl http://localhost:8080
```

That's pretty useful.

Let's see another way how containers can be useful with volume mounts in the [next lesson](/lesson-8).
